We begin with an archived interview
of Brother Allan Boyle.
Among his many assignments,
Brother Boyle spent 37 years
in the Art Department
at world headquarters.
The beautiful and accurate illustrations
produced there enhance our study,
helping us to visualize
and meditate on what we are reading.
An assignment
to create these pictures is exciting,
but it requires
that a person have spiritual qualities.
Artists collaborate
and must humbly listen
to each other’s comments.
They must apply direction
from “the faithful and discreet slave”
to prepare artwork
that we can take in as spiritual food.
As you’ll hear Brother Boyle describe,
a person must be
an avid student of the Bible.
Listen to Brother Boyle’s story,
and note what he said was needed
for him to do his assignment well.
I was born in 1933.
I got to the age of 18,
and one suppertime
my mother
had invited the company servant,
as they were called back then,
to come for supper.
He asked me
what I was going to do with my life.
I said to him,
“Well, I’m going to pioneer.”
So three weeks later,
at the convention in London,
I got baptized and then
went pioneering six months after that.
I was 21 when I was in the circuit work,
and that was a wonderful experience.
And in those days,
of course, you didn’t have a car.
I used to have a motorbike.
And I’d go around
on the motorbike with my briefcase
and my typewriter
and my clothes in the other case on the back.
Yeah, that was very exciting.
I was invited to go to Gilead,
and that was wonderfully exciting.
We had 103 in the class.
Little did I know at the time
that I would be sent
as a missionary to Ireland.
My friend had been invited to go down
to London Bethel to do the artwork there.
I’d always wanted to be in Bethel.
I thought, ‘Well, why don’t I just
call him up and congratulate him?’
So that’s what I did,
and he told me that he decided not to go.
So he said: “If you’re
still interested, why don’t you go?
You know, call them up and let them know.”
So that’s what I did.
The next morning, I called up London Bethel,
and within a week I was
in London Bethel doing the graphics work
for the magazines, you know.
It was a wonderful, thrilling experience.
I was in London Bethel for a couple of years,
in 1977 to 1979,
and then Brother Barry invited me
to come over to Brooklyn Bethel.
You know that you’re doing
something that’s going to be beneficial
and helpful to other people,
even to people in different
languages, in different cultures.
A little painting that you do
is going to help them
to get a memory of something significant.
One of the most beautiful things
about working in the Art Department
and doing paintings
is that it makes you do research.
You have to investigate.
Is this the right time of the day?
Is it night? Is it day?
What did the sky look like?
What was it like
before the Flood when Noah built the ark?
How did he paint underneath the ark?
How did he waterproof it?
Because that’s
the most important part, isn’t it?
He used bitumen.
OK, how did he get underneath the ark?
Maybe he put it on stilts.
You have to come up
with all these little questions in your mind.
To do the research was very rewarding.
This is a little model of a boat,
and underneath the deck they used to keep
a ballast sack of 110 pounds (50 kg) of sand.
It says in the Scriptures
that Jesus was asleep on “a pillow.”
Apparently, this was
the ballast sack that he was asleep on.
And actually,
in the Kingdom Interlinear translation,
it doesn’t say
that he was asleep on “a pillow”;
it says he was asleep on “the pillow.”
So apparently,
back 2,000 years ago in that area,
everybody knew what “the pillow” was.
I remember meeting
a brother once who’d been to Siberia,
and he’d taken a snapshot
of somebody’s kitchen in Siberia.
And to my amazement, on the wall
—pinned with drawing pins on the wall—
was one of the pages of the publications
that we produced here at Brooklyn.
And so, remarkably,
it’s wonderful to feel
that whatever we do here
—if it’s support work,
if it’s the painting,
and, of course, we need
a lot of support work for the paintings—
all of what we do here
has an effect upon the brothers and sisters
out there in the world, wherever it might be.
And you really feel
that your time is well spent.
You’re adorning the Word of truth.
You’re helping other people
to be taught something from the Bible,
which is going to be to their benefit.
It’s been very rewarding and thrilling
to be in Jehovah’s service,
and I’ve really enjoyed it.
Allan Boyle finished
his earthly course in 2016.
Those in the Art Department
who worked with him
remember his enthusiasm
and his thorough attention to detail.
What Allan brought to his assignment
was rooted
in his own personal study of the Bible.
He found it rewarding to do the research
needed to illustrate Bible scenes.
Today, the Writing Department supplies
a team of researchers to assist the artists.
But did you recall
what Allan said helped his research?
He asked questions
about the scenes he was painting!
These same kinds of questions
are part of the study methods
Gilead students learn in class.